All right, so in this video, let's
explore the behavior of an abstract
class in contrast to the final class
we looked at in the previous video.
We're going to start by adding
some code and we're going to add
it to right at the end of the
source code again, the same file.
FirstFinalTest.java - pasted the
abstract definition you can see there.
The comment mentions, the following
class is an abstract class
which means we MUST subclass it.
It's incomplete in its current
form and cannot be instantiated.
So, let's add some code
and try and do that.
So add the code in the main method
of our FirstFinalTest class.
You won't be surprised I hope to
find that this code doesn't compile.
Hovering over, ExtendMeRequired is
abstract and cannot be instantiated.
Obviously, you cannot create an
instance of an abstract class.
All right, so let's just remove
that code I just pasted because
we won't be needing that.
All right, so let's explore the
abstract class just a bit more as
a comparison to the final class.
What I'm going to do first is add
the final modifier to the abstract
class that we've just pasted in.
So, we'll come up here and add final.
You can see that by doing that, I’ve
introduced another compiler error.
The concepts of abstract and
final are polar opposites.
An abstract class is unfinished by
its nature and requires a subclass
to complete its implementation.
A final class is complete and
does not allow subclasses to alter
or extend its implementation.
So if you see these two modifiers
together on an exam question,
you now know immediately that
the code doesn't compile.
All right, so let's
remove that last change.
I'll remove the final
clause there again.
Now, let's extend the abstract class.
So, we're going to paste
in the code again right at
the end of the source file.
Now you can see what I've done there.
We're extending the
ExtendMeRequired class.
You can see at the top of the
screen there and for the doSomething
method, which was defined as final
method in line 87, note that an
overwritten method can be modified
with the final modifier, it's
still considered a valid override.
So, let's actually test that
add some code in our main method
again, and we'll test this.
Let's run the code now.
And we can see the last two lines
of output there, implementation
of this method was required and
overriding ExtendMeRequired dot
doSomethingFinally is not optional.
And that's consistent with what
we've done down here on line
104, the output specifically.
All right, finally, now as a
test, we're going to make the
MySecondExtendedClass on screen
final,
so I'll include that, final modifier before the class definition.
Note that we've got no compilation
errors there and that's got no
effect on the outcome of the program.
All right, so let's
end the video here.
And in the next one, let's recap what
we've learnt over the last few videos.
See you in the next video.